Update home page for 2025 series (#63)
Openscapes/pathways-to-open-science: index.qmd

![](images/pathways-recap-zoomie-wordcloud.png){fig-alt="2 zoom selfies of 48 Black people smiling and waving, a cartoon of a Black woman sitting, smiling, reading a book called Open Science, and a word cloud with community, personal stories, resources, as largest font words" fig-align="center" width="85%"}

## Program Details

This remote event series will convene Black environmental and marine researcher community members with the goal of developing a mindset for Open Data Science: the tools and practices enabling reproducible, transparent, and inclusive practices for data intensive science. If you're feeling bogged down by folders full of files with names like "analysis_final_v5.xlsx" and/or like empowering others, we welcome you to join us!

> This is an ongoing Openscapes collaboration with Black in Marine Science ([BIMS](https://www.blackinmarinescience.org/)), Black Women in Ecology, Evolution, and Marine Science ([BWEEMS](https://www.bweems.org/)) and HBCU marine science professors. The program is led by Ileana Fenwick, with Alex Davis, PhD, and Aneese Williams, MSc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is an ongoing [Openscapes](https://openscapes.org) collaboration with Black in Marine Science ([BIMS](https://www.blackinmarinescience.org/)), Black Women in Ecology, Evolution, and Marine Science ([BWEEMS](https://www.bweems.org/)) and HBCU marine science professors. The program is led by Ileana Fenwick, with Alex Davis, PhD, and Aneese Williams, MSc.
```

> This is an ongoing Openscapes collaboration with Black in Marine Science ([BIMS](https://www.blackinmarinescience.org/)), Black Women in Ecology, Evolution, and Marine Science ([BWEEMS](https://www.bweems.org/)) and HBCU marine science professors. The program is led by Ileana Fenwick, with Alex Davis, PhD, and Aneese Williams, MSc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is an ongoing Openscapes collaboration with Black in Marine Science ([BIMS](https://www.blackinmarinescience.org/)), Black Women in Ecology, Evolution, and Marine Science ([BWEEMS](https://www.bweems.org/)) and marine science professors from 7 Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs). The program is led by Ileana Fenwick, with Alex Davis, PhD, and Aneese Williams, MSc.
```

Author: added in my local branch; couldn't auto-commit

[Aneese Williams](https://www.linkedin.com/in/aneese-williams-mps-80a846b6/), MSc, is co-organizing Pathways to Open Science as a representative of [BIMS](https://www.blackinmarinescience.org/). She is a graduate of Hampton University where she studied Marine & Environmental Science. Aneese has an M.Sc. in Marine Biology & Fisheries from University of Miami Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science (RSMAS). Currently, Aneese is the Environmental Management Systems Coordinator for the City of West Palm Beach, FL. She manages an Environmental Education Program that allows employees to be more aware of their potential environmental impacts associated with their everyday tasks, highlighting the importance of protecting the environment. She is an expert in problem-solving with data, working to "do things better in less time".

[LaWanda Walker](https://www.linkedin.com/in/lawanda-walker-b673a71b2/) creates the promotional graphics and content for Pathways to Open Science and coordinates promotion with our collaborators. She is a graduate of Hampton University and current graduate student at the University of Chicago with an interest in nonprofit management and public history.

> [Julie Lowndes](https://www.openscapes.org/team/), PhD, founded and directs Openscapes and provides support for the Pathways to Open Science program.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Julie Lowndes](https://www.openscapes.org/team/), PhD, is Openscapes founder & core team member and provides support for the Pathways to Open Science program.
```

### Timeline

-   October - November 2024: Planning team coordination
-   November - January 2025 planning meetings with liaisons and social media engagement, registration opens
-   January 23, 2025 - event series kickoff
-   Februrary 27 - event series concludes
-   March-April - followup and publish report!

## Connect with us!

**BWEEMS**: [Website](https://www.bweems.org) • [Instagram](https://instagram.com/official_bweems?igshid=MWI4MTIyMDE=) • [Twitter](https://twitter.com/official_bweems?s=21&t=s-DTN1VVq1z4D-CILebMRQ)

**BIMS**: [Website](https://blackinmarinescience.org) • [Instagram](https://instagram.com/blackinmarinescience?igshid=MWI4MTIyMDE=) • [Twitter](https://twitter.com/blackinmarsci) • [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/BlackInMarineScience)

**Openscapes**: [Website](https://openscapes.org) • [Bluesky](https://bsky.app/profile/openscapes.bsky.social) • [Mastodon](https://fosstodon.org/@openscapes) • [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/@openscapes)

## Background Information

To learn more about Openscapes approaches:

> -   [Shifting institutional culture to develop climate solutions with Open Science](https://doi.org/10.1002/ece3.11341) (Lowndes et al. 2024, Ecology and Evolution)

Reviewer: let's add White House blog post first! And Antoinette's post as well!

## Funding

> The 2025 Pathways event series is funded by NOAA Fisheries, NASA Earthdata and Openscapes LLC. We are grateful to Pathways to Open Science was kicked off with 2023 support from the [Code for Science & Society Event Fund](https://eventfund.codeforscience.org/event-fund-grantees/) through the [Chan Zuckerberg Initiative](https://chanzuckerberg.com/). Our 2024 Series was funded in part by [Mozilla Foundation's Alumni Connection grant](https://foundation.mozilla.org/en/blog/mozilla-announces-first-ever-alumni-connection-grant-finalists/) that supported our collaboration with [PREreview](https://prereview.org/) and Dr. Antoinette Foster’s [expertise](https://openscapes.org/blog/2024-08-09-antoinette-foster-letter-make-the-world-better-place/) in values-guided career navigation and anti-racist scholarly review. Thank you!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The 2025 Pathways event series is funded by NOAA Fisheries and Openscapes LLC. We are grateful to our previous funders in past years as well. This program was kicked off in 2023, when it was funded in part by the [Code for Science & Society Event Fund](https://eventfund.codeforscience.org/event-fund-grantees/) through the [Chan Zuckerberg Initiative](https://chanzuckerberg.com/). In 2024 it was funded in part by [Mozilla Foundation's Alumni Connection grant](https://foundation.mozilla.org/en/blog/mozilla-announces-first-ever-alumni-connection-grant-finalists/) that supported our collaboration with [PREreview](https://prereview.org/) and Dr. Antoinette Foster’s [expertise](https://openscapes.org/blog/2024-08-09-antoinette-foster-letter-make-the-world-better-place/) in values-guided career navigation and anti-racist scholarly review. Thank you!
```
